# Development concepts for terraform

## Introduction
When developing terraform to deploy infrastructure or components of infrastructure that maybe consumed by other terraform deployments it is important to consider how the resultant resources will be consumed and leveraged. The reasoning being to ensure if shared among many other terraform deployments or systems that the resultant resources remain stable and consistent with expectations set with the consumers. This means core infrastructure should be deployed in such a way it can be consumed similiar to version apis that provide a contract and consistent behavior for consumption. This is to ensure reliability of the shared components.
## Considerations:
* When deploying infrastructure such as VPCs, load balancers, s3 buckets or other shared resources please consider establishing tags that can be used to identify the resource or its security groups so these can be looked up and do not need to referred to directly by unique identifiers like ARN or UUIDs. This enables dependent modules to be aware of the resource via a friendly name that will remain constant throughout the lifecycle of the shared component.
* In dependent modules if possible lookup resource references via data sources rather then passing values between modules. There are times that resources are created outside of the existing terraform context that need to be consumed and this approach allows you to leverage the cloud or other data source provider as a source of truth for your modules data.
* Shared components provisioned in terraform establish behaviors and expectations with consumers this means that breaking changes may cause all dependent modules to require changes to work. To mitigate this adopting version and deploying new versions of shared resources that can be selected via tags allows for iterative adoption and transition to new infrastructure without impacting existing workflows that may have different migration schedules.